Sonic: What?!
Shadow: It all starts with this…
A miracle stone of infinite power…
Sonic: That’s! - That's a chaos emerald!
So you’re the one everybody’s talking about!
The military went after me because they confused me for you!
Now… that chaos emerald… just whaddya think you’re gonna do with it?!
Say something!, you faker!
Shadow: Chaos control!
Sonic: Tch! - That speed!
No - that’s not his true speed! - He's using the Chaos Emerald to warp!
Shadow: My name is Shadow.
I’m the sole ultimate lifeform on this planet…
I must head back to where I came from -
- this game ends now!
Sonic: Gah!
His name is Shadow?
SOLDIERS: Stay where you are and put your hands above your head right now!
Sonic: Great…
11:56 AM, 11:56 AM, PRISON ISLAND: OFF THE COAST, IN THE SKY
Tails: This must be the Island!
This is a super strong military base and prison!
It’s best known as Prison Island.
I’ve heard all the news on Satellite TV, but… - I still can’t believe that Sonic would destroy military buildings or rob a bank…
Hold on, Sonic! I’ll get you outta there right away!
Huh? —— That’s Amy!… and isn’t that?!… Eggman?!
What’s Amy doing here?! —  Nuh-uh, doesn’t matter, I’ve gotta rescue (‘rescue') Amy, too!
Tornado! - Mode change!
Rouge: Long time no see! You have the rest of my emerald, don’t ya dear?
Knuckles: Enough of that! As if telling me to give it to YOU will do anything!
Rouge: All right… in that case… I’ll just —— force you to give them to me…
MINUTES BEFORE EGGMAN’S ATTACK - ONE MINUTE AND THIRTY SECONDS
Tails: Sonic… I did it…
Sonic on Walkie-Talkie: Awesome job Tails!
Tails: Sonic! — Amy: Hmm? Sonic on Walkie-Talkie: Look outside.
The intruder is currently in the north area proceeding to infiltrate the underground base! - All units standby for further orders and deployment! - All units in the current area proceed with basic battle formations! - and prevent the intruder from accessing the restricted area!This is not a drill repeat, this is not a drill!
Eggman: Wahaahaa! This is too easy!
Let me see what my grandfather had made! ———— Let me see what this top-secret military weapon is!
Sonic: That’s!-
Shadow: It’s that hedgehog again of all places!-
Sonic: I found you!, faker!
Shadow: Faker? Aren’t YOU the fake one here? — No… you don’t even deserve to be called my fake… Are you even up to my level?
Sonic: I’ll make you eat those words!
Sonic: You’re not gonna run away this time…. — You faker! -
Eggman: I finally blasted that pest of a hedgehog into outer space! Now then, what shall you do Tails?
Should you dare oppose me - I shall offer no mercy!
Tails: You’ll pay! - You’ll pay for what you did to Sonic! I won’t let you get away with this!
Knuckles: What are you doing!-Rouge: I’m returning them… - they stink like echidnas anyway…
Knuckles: Well - if you thought it that way… you should’ve returned them to me in the first place…
Finally…
Rouge: What?  —— Knuckles: I’m sorry… for acting roughly (for acting so rudely)…’
Sonic: Now, Shadow!
Sonic and Shadow in Unison: Chaos - Control!
Shadow: Maria… Is this what you wished for?…